## Universal design for learning

[Universal Design for Learning
(UDL)](http://udloncampus.cast.org/home)
 is a proactive educational approach that
addresses diverse student needs by anticipating common access
requirements from the outset. It's much less effort for everyone
involved, students and instructors alike, when these needs are met
upfront.

With all of the modern educational tools we have at our disposal, the
possibilities for supporting students in their learning have widened
dramatically over the decades, but they are not being utilised.

Our lives are filled with technologies and tools that help people,
disabled or not, function more easily. Items like stairs, escalators,
scissors, washing machines, and other tools are accepted as essential
for any person's day-to-day functioning. No one questions their use or
considers them unnecessary accommodations. Yet, technologies and
supports designed to make life easier specifically for disabled
people---such as documents formatted in accessible ways---are often seen
as unnecessary, burdensome, or special treatment.

As [Wilson (2017)](../bibliography/#Wilson) notes, this disparity is an example of
what Alison Kafer calls the invisibility of nondisabled access and the
hypervisibility of disabled access. Both stairs and ramps provide
access, but only stairs go "unmarked as access; indeed, it is only when
atypical bodies are taken into account that the question of access
becomes a problem." [(Kafer, 2013)](../bibliography/#Kafer).

UDL views disabled and non-disabled access needs at equal levels of
importance, utilising new tools and common adjustments to support all
students. Inclusive strategies ensure all students, whether disabled or
not, have equal access to learning. These adjustments, like providing
materials in advance or utilising lecture capture effectively, become
standard practices that benefit all learners. Embracing UDL is not a big
deal; it's simply about providing what each student needs to thrive and
making education fairer and more effective for all. Even small changes
can make a huge improvement in the educational outcomes and wellbeing of
students.


